---
layout: post
title: Arhigos
category: 100
---
Arhigos(αρχηγός) is one of the Greek words for Leader. It's formed by two words arhi(αρχή) which stands for first/beginning and ago(ἄγω) which means to lead. Leadership is something that has been studied for hundreds of years and still is. People, businesses, organisations and teams are all looking for good leaders. People that have a solid grasp of leadership. People that inspire others. People that drive others forward.

What makes a great leader though? What are the qualities that one must look in a leader? I do not know for certain.

In my life and in the many industries I have worked in, I've observed different things. One thing though that I think is a good characteristic of great leaders is humility. "Be the change you want to see in the world" Gandhi famously said. When you want to inspire change, you must first become that change. You must embody it if others are to believe in your vision and follow. People that preach things that they themselves don't follow, often lose respect from others quickly.

In the classic ["The Art of War"](http://www.amazon.co.uk/Sun-Tzus-Art-War-Tzu/dp/0804839441/ref=sr_1_11?ie=UTF8&qid=1443129504&sr=8-11&keywords=the+art+of+war+giles), the translator provides two great examples of famous Chinese generals that showcase this quality and which I will always remember.

In one of them, during a march of the army of one of the generals, a soldier gets bitten by a poisonous snake. The general immediately rushes over and with his knife, he opens the wound further and sucks the poison out, thus saving the soldier whilst risking his. When news of the event reach the soldier's mother through a messenger, she starts crying in despair. The messenger confused asks why she is so upset. "Because now no matter what my son will give his life to defend the general" she replies...
