---
layout: post
title: Writing Hour
category: blog
tag:
- 100 Words Challenge
---
For a couple of weeks now, the first thing I would do (and still do) every morning is write my blog post. Before I would leave it as something I would do after work hours whilst also thinking that throughout the day I would get more of an idea of what I wanted to write about.

The problem with the approach I had before is twofold. Rarely did I have a better idea as a result of my endeavors at work and more importantly, I ended up dreading having to write a blog post after finishing work. With this post being number 77 since we started this challenge, the interesting thing is that I feel like I _have to_ write a blog post every day.

Despite the fact that deliberate practice is good, feeling that _weight_ every day is something that needs to be managed carefully. I noticed that leaving the blog post as something to be done later during the day, made a big impact on the rest of my day and not in a good way. My night for example felt like it was "owned" by the one blog post I had to write. There was no time for much else. Being also tired at the end of a working day, it would take much longer to write because naturally I wanted to procrastinate and relax.

Doing it as the first thing in the morning has been liberating. I do get up a bit earlier as a result but writing uninterrupted in the early hours of the morning is wonderful. I set myself a time limit as well by which I need to finish it and it works great. This piece was written in twenty minutes for example. Even though I'm never sure of what exactly I want to write, I just start typing things and eventually a pattern, or a subject if you like, arises. Once I'm done writing, I let it "sit" for a bit until I get to the office where I do a quick check for last edits and that's it.

There's a lot to be said about what time of the day works best for people but there's also a reason why many people prefer doing important things in the morning. That's where our mental tank is full and so far it's been working for me well.
