---
layout: post
title: 8LU
category: 100
---
One of the great parts of 8th Light's culture, is the commitment that everyone has towards learning and self-improvement. It was one of the things that drew me into 8th Light.

When I was starting my journey into software development, one of my biggest worries was ending up in a company where there was a very specific type of technology in place and where there wasn't much room for anything else. When I found out about 8th Light and the core ideas behind the company, I was sold. 8th Light University was one of those ideas.

8th Light University is designed to promote and encourage learning and the sharing of knowledge. Old ideas rediscovered, new ideas explained, are all part of this great process. It's something that we do every Friday and lately in the London office we've been putting a lot more structure around it.

Today we had our first _main_ 8LU event with [Adam Tornhill](http://www.adamtornhill.com/bookreviews.htm) as a guest speaker. Adam presented some fascinating ideas and ways of thinking about source code and the history that a tool like Git provides us. With a bit of work, a wealth of information can be extracted including social behaviors and patterns within organizations. Adam is a great speaker and the talk did not disappoint. We were very pleased to have him and so did the rest of the audience I think.

I love working at 8th Light for a number of reasons. Tonight's event was just another one of those reasons. Seeing the people I work with so excited about learning new things and engaging with new people, makes me very happy and proud working at 8th Light. I will continue to do my part to help the company maintain it's culture and improve it even more as I'm sure everyone else I will.

Here's to more great nights like this.
